# Sample Entity Framework Core (EF Core) application

This application was created to demonstrate how Entity Framework bypasses the need to write complex SQL statements to manage simple databases. It makes use of Dependancy Injection and is a nice simple example of how to use Interfaces to acieve loose coupling of code.

The application does nothing but display the contents of a small database of computers in a really ugly HTML table.

There are no plans to further develop this demo app.

## How the app works
#### Web UI (LMS project)
The WebUI project is a default ASP.NET Core 3 Web application.  The only changes made to this project has been in the Pages/Index files, with HTML being added to display the contents of the Computers table from the database, and a count of the records.  Additions were also made to the page model to bring the data over.

The Startup.cs file was modified to allow for Dependancy Injection of the required database context and the "repository" (in the LmsData project) that performs all the CRUD functions.

#### LmsData project
This is the project that does the heavy lifting with the database. First, the ComputerModel was created. This defines a Computer 'object'. An extension to the ModelBuilder component of EF Corewas written to add seed data to the database when it is created.

The LmsContext file is the mst important.  It defines the data sets to be made available, and calls the Seed() method to populate the database with the initial data.

##### Migrations Folder in LmsData
All the code in the Migrations folder has been automatically generated by Entity Framework. The database structure code (LmsContextModelSnapshot.cs) is generated by running the "Add-Migration" command in the Package Manager console.

Changes to the database structure are written to the database by using the "Update-Database" package manager command.